---
title: "The Problem(s) With MySpace"
date: 2006-06-08
---

I recently ended my two year relationship with [MySpace](http://www.myspace.com/). I did this for many reasons but I wanted to share some of my experiences in regards to this website.
For those of you that have been living under a rock for the last several years, MySpace is a social networking site. Once the user signs up, which is free, they get a profile which is searchable by other members using a variety of criteria.
MySpace was originally popular with up and coming bands. Users could browse the bands' profiles, listen to music, read the bands' blog and post comments about the band. Somewhere down the line, it was decided that people needed their own custom profiles. Because of the egotistical nature of people, the site has exploded. The site generates it's revenue through advertisements, which are EVERYWHERE. It has apparently been successful as it ["was bought in July 2005 for $580 million by Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation (the parent company of Fox Broadcasting and other media enterprises)"](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MySpace) and now has ["250 employees and projects a 2006 revenue of US$200M." (wikipedia.org)](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MySpace).
I fully believe there is one reason, one feature, why MySpace is so popular and why, I believe, many people are experiencing problems with it. You can enter your full name, which is searchable, but is not disclosed or displayed. This allows you to find long lost friends, or stalk people. This feature reveals the user's true identity, but keeps the user believing they are anonymous. And therein, I believe, lies the major social flaw with this website.
There are many, many problems with MySpace both social and technical, the latest involving their terms of service.
> "By displaying or publishing ("posting") any Content, messages, text, files, images, photos, video, sounds, profiles, works of authorship, or any other materials (collectively, "Content") on or through the Services, you hereby grant to MySpace.com, a non-exclusive, fully-paid and royalty-free, worldwide license (with the right to sublicense through unlimited levels of sublicensees) to use, copy, modify, adapt, translate, publicly perform, publicly display, store, reproduce, transmit, and distribute such Content on and through the Services."

This says that MySpace can use any content that is hosted on, or displayed through, their site without paying royalties to the author or artist. This has many bands rethinking the posting of new music. I am beginning a fictional story series soon, which I was going to post on MySpace, until I saw this part of the license agreement.
Technical
MySpace has a variety of technical problems but there are just a couple I want to speak to. The site is implemented using a mix of ColdFusion and ASP running IIS servers. This is not the most stable combination I can think of, especially for a site that pulls as much traffic as it does. This can be seen in the many outages, unexpected errors and delays while the browser is waiting on the server.
There are many features that are VERY poorly designed such as the blog (not that there is much blogging on that site..more on that later), the forums and countless other interfaces. The blog and forums in particular seem to have been implemented as an afterthought. The classifieds are a clone of the popular site [CraigsList](http://www.craigslist.org/).
User Base
The average user seems to be right in line with their target audience, the 13 - 25 year old. Most of the users seem to be obsessed with alcohol, partying and sex. Most of the people on that site seem attention starved to some point and are either still in high school, or behave as if they are. MySpace has become a place for "drama" as well as a popularity contest. There are even add ons you can use to display how many "profile views" you have, just so everyone can see how "popular" you are.
Profile Features
The profile is the main page of the person, or band you are looking at. This contains everything you never wanted to know about that person and is customizable with HTML. This feature has not only caused many ugly, lame profiles that proudly run every standard of HTML and tasteful web pages into the ground, but has caused a plethora of other companies and sites that will not only help you desecrate everything the [World Wide Web Consortium](http://www.w3.org/) is working towards, but advertise on your profile as well.
Each user can post pictures in their profile, which MySpace hosts. These pictures are not supposed to be copyrighted and nudity is not allowed. These rules are enforced, yet the pictures do not go through any sort of approval process so occasionally you will see a [Family Guy](http://www.familyguy.com) reference or parts of a 14 year old you would be arrested for viewing in most states. The pictures can remain in the profile until a staff member sees them, or they are reported. With 250 staff members total, and 70+ million profiles...well...you do the math.
One picture is displayed on the front page next to a headline. Most people use the headline to describe themselves..."hottest married girl on MySpace," "you wish you were hot like me," "the most popular girl on the internet," "3,789 profile views..thank you guys." You get the idea. The best one I saw was "Ya'll need to get a life." I thought that was very appropriate.
The user can enter their statistics such as gender, sexual orientation, what they are here for, home town, etc. There is also a section for interests such as music, movies, television and books (can we guess which one is least filled out). There is also a heros section, of which most are [Paris Hilton](http://www.petitionspot.com/petitions/parissux), I'm sure.
Then, there is the blog. This is where people can copy and paste whatever they want and title it as their own, write about stuff no one cares about, write about other people or write about their own lives. I noticed while using this site that the server at blog.myspace.com seemed to be the most reliable and the least likely to be delayed. In case you're wondering, the server that is the most busy is located at viewmorepics.myspace.com. Go figure..although they seem to use this server for more than viewing pictures, which doesn't make a whole lot of sense considering it's main job is serving pictures which would tie it up more than, well, the blog server which few people use.
There is the about me section, where you can just type about yourself, or paste pictures, or do whatever. Most people just type about themselves and use the section following, who I'd like to meet, to tell everyone they want looking at their profile off.
Next up, we have the second most ridiculous feature (actually two combined)...the friend's list. Here, you can show everyone how many friends you have (with a friend count being displayed). I understand the purpose of this, but some people have upwards of 10,000 "friends." I can't tell you how many random "friend requests" I received while using this site. People I didn't know, married women who OBVIOUSLY didn't want to be married, bands, women doing porn...you get the picture. The friend's list became a joke, an ego boost that no one looked through, especially if you had 5,346 friends. Really, does anyone think someone knows and talks to that many people enough to consider them all friends?
A feature that was implemented during my stint on this site was the "top 8." This allowed you to pick your top 8, closest friends. In my opinion, this is number 2 in the list of features that cause the most social problems on MySpace. I have seen, and heard, falling-outs and fighting over someone's top eight friends. I have seen people's feelings hurt and watched relationships fall apart, and few are immune to it. Everyone feels.
The feature that, in my opinion, caused the most problems and was probably the least useful is what is next, and last in my description; the comments. Here was a place to make comments about the person or to the person. These were out for everyone to see and many people felt it necessary to carry out conversations in their comments section. People could use html, so of course, all sorts of "fun" things could be done in comments. You can also comment on pictures and blogs. The comments were used, back when the site was used for bands, as a means for people to publicly critique or comment on the band. Now you can publicly critique or comment on, or about the person or other people.
My Experience
MySpace is a tool. You can use it however you want as there are few restrictions, and no sort of verification except through an email address. MySpace is very flexible, allowing you to use the site in a variety of different manners. However, as with any tool, you have to be responsible using it. A gun is merely a tool...what makes it dangerous is how it is used. Many people are not responsible enough to use or own a gun. There are many people who are not "socially responsible" enough to use MySpace, but only to their own demise or to those close to them.
You are not annonymous on MySpace. People you know can find you and see what you have been up to, especially if you use the comments as many do, conversations in public. But it does give you some anonimity to those you don't. I believe that this is the major problem with MySpace, why people say it ruins lives. It allows people to become themselves in the face of almost limitless social accessability. If a person is an "attention whore," it really comes out.
I have heard this site discussed at get togethers, people complaining about other people's behavior. I've heard, seen and experienced hurt feelings and ruined relationships over this website..OVER A WEBSITE. Many people I know or knew are now addicted to this site and consider it part of their lives. I hear this site mentioned every day (I decided a week ago to see how long it would take before I didn't hear the site mentioned for an entire day. It still hasn't happened). For many, it has become an obsession.
Final Thoughts
I used MySpace to get in touch with people I used to know and to have an online presence. The website actually got me in touch with Jennifer, so I really can't hate it all that much. But I realized that for most of the people I don't know anymore, there was a reason I didn't. I realized that I didn't have time to maintain those relationships and that the relationships that were important to me, with those closest to me, were suffering. There was the "how have you been" email, and then nothing. It became a popularity contest.
As time goes on, technology brings the world closer to us. Events that shouldn't affect us do. We now know things about those close to us we were never meant to know, private things that are shoved into the public view. This combined with the false sense of anonimity make MySpace a dangerous place for the socially irresponsible, but only to themselves, which causes most not to recognize the problem. This is perfectly acceptable, as it is a matter of personal choice. I only hope more people fully realize the long reaching consequences of seemingly harmless fun and take personal responsibility for being able to use such a powerful tool.
As a side note, one reason that cemented my decision to leave stemmed from one picture of someone I didn't know. It was of a younger mother holding her baby (under a year). The caption said "Here is my sexy baby." I haven't been able to shake that image or caption; it infuriates me. Do I want to be associated with someone, no matter how remotely, that refers to a BABY as sexy? My answer was no. I don't want to be associated with those types of people, of which there are plenty on MySpace.
For some of the same reason I don't watch the news, I am done with MySpace and can now focus my full attention on real life.